Nagios Alpha Quick-and-Dirty Installation Instructions
--------------------------------------------------------

I would highly recommend using a web browser to read the documentation and
installation instructions in the html/docs directory.  They provide a
much better overview of how to configure Nagios.


*** IMPORTANT ***
Plugins are not distributed with the core Nagios distribution. However, 
plugins are required if you actually want to use Nagios.  You'll have to
download any plugins you want to use from the main website, compile them,
and install them before you can actually start using Nagios.  Plugins
can be obtained from the downloads page at http://www.nagios.org/.


Compiling The Binaries
----------------------

1) Run the configure script to initialize variables and create a Makefile, etc.

   	./configure --prefix=PREFIX --with-cgiurl=CGIURL --with-htmurl=HTMURL --with-nagios-user=SOMEUSER --with-nagios-group=SOMEGROUP

   a) Replace PREFIX with the base directory under which Nagios should be
      installed.  Default is '/usr/local/nagios'
	
   b) Replace CGIURL with the base URL that you will be using to access the
      CGIs.  Do NOT include a trailing slash.  Default is '/nagios/cgi-bin'

   c) Replace HTMURL with the base URL that you will be using to access the
      html documentation and main interface.  Default is '/nagios'

   d) Replace SOMEUSER with the name of the user on your system that will 
      be given permissions to the Nagios directories and files.  Default
      is 'nagios'

   e) Replace SOMEGROUP with the name of the group on your system that
      will be given permissions to the Nagios directories and files.
      Default is 'nagios'


   Notes:
	There are also --with-command-user and --with-command-group options
        that can be specified.  These are used when installing the directory
        that will hold the external command file.  For more information on 
        external commands, read the HTML documentation.


2) Compile Nagios and the CGIs with the following command:

	make all



Installing The Binaries
-----------------------

1) Install the binaries and HTML documentations with the following command:

	make install



Creating And Installing Sample Config Files
-------------------------------------------

Sample main, resource and CGI configuration files are automatically
created	in your distribution distribution directory after you run the
configure script.  The files are named 'nagios.cfg', 'resource.cfg'
and 'cgi.cfg' respectively.

1) If you want, you can install the sample config files into the
   {prefix}/etc directory with the following command:

	make install-config



Installing The Init Script
--------------------------

1) If you want to install and init script for starting Nagios, use the
   following command:

	make install-init



Everything Else
---------------

1)  You'll have to download and install plugins for use with Nagios.  Plugins
    can be obtained from the downloads page at http://www.nagios.org of from
    the SourceForge project page at http://nagiosplug.sourceforge.net

2)  You'll have to edit your main, host, resource, and CGI config files in order
    to fit your system setup and define what hosts and service you want to
    monitor.  Read the HTML docs on how to do this and look at the sample
    config files.

3)  If you plan on using the CGIs, you'll have to read the HTML documentation
    on configuring you web server properly and CGI authentication  and
    authorization.  These are a must to read!



That's it!  If you have problems or questions, read all of the HTML
documentation, particularly the sections on the configuration files and CGI
authentication before reporting problems.  Unless you feel that your 
problem can only be answered by me, try posting a message to the
appropriate mailing list.

	-- Ethan Galstad (nagios@nagios.org)
